GUIDED MEDITATION AUDIO TRANSCRIPTION
This meditation will last about 20 minutes and will use the sensation of breathing as an aid to develop mindfulness.
Sit somewhere comfortable on a chair, the edge of a bed or on the floor with your legs crossed.
If you are sitting on a chair move slightly forward so your back is away from the back rest.  We want to support our own back and maintain a comfortable but alert posture.
Take a minute or two to make yourself as comfortable as you can: shift around on your seat, loosen your shoulders and neck, loosen any tight clothing.
(brief pause)
Now that you are comfortable gently close or half close your eyes.
Now take 2 or 3 deep breaths, breathing in through the nose, and out through the mouth.
Now breath naturally, breathing in and out through the nose.  Pay attention to the sensation of breathing. Are you inhaling or exhaling? What sensations do you notice?
Can you feel the air moving in and out through your nostrils?
The air moving over your upper lip?
What about the back of your throat? Can you feel anything there?
Explore the different sensations that arise from simply breathing in and breathing out.
When you breath in do you notice your chest expanding?  
Do you feel your chest contracting as you breath out?
Can you feel your stomach rising and falling as you breath?
Do you notice how your shoulder blades open up slightly as you breath in, and close up slightly as you breath out?
Notice all these subtle sensations which arise from the process of breathing.
Now settle your focus on the sensation where you most easily feel your in and out breath.  Consciously direct your attention here, knowing when you are breathing in and when you are breathing out.
(pause)
As you are directing your attention to the sensations of breathing you may notice that you become distracted with other thoughts.
This is completely normal.  
When this happens simply make a mental note of what has distracted you, and consciously redirect your attention to the sensation of breathing.  
This frequent re-establishing of mindfulness is an important part of meditation and brings powerful benefits.
Now I will let you continue this process on your own for a while: focusing on the sensation of breathing, noticing when you are distracted and re-establishing mindfulness.
(extended pause)
Now that you've been meditating for a while I want you to pay attention to the way you feel in your body and mind.  
Do you feel relaxed?
Is your mind quieter?
Perhaps you feel slightly anxious.
Are you alert?
Or maybe a little sleepy?
Are you still comfortable or do you feel a bit tight?
Each time you meditate you will feel slightly different.  
Simply notice these feelings in the present moment.  
See if these sensations remain constant, or if they change.
The end of a meditation session is a good time to make a positive affirmation in your mind.  
Something like: “I choose to live consciously. I create a bright future for myself.  I am master of my fate”.  
Choose your own affirmation or feel free to use my suggestion.
Repeat it consciously in your mind.
(pause)
When you are ready, slowly open your eyes, move your body around a bit and be on your way.





